And so there's a version of this cuz
nobody wants to watch me type that many
Tailwind classes.
If you do, I have a course that
you can watch some other time,
if you wanna watch me type
that many Tailwind classes.
But if we look at this,
this is what the button that we had in our
little anthology design
system kinda looks like.
So this is kinda taking that
CSS module that we had and
refactoring it into Tailwind.
Again, Tailwind is not like some of
the things that came before Bootstrap or
whatever, where it's a theme.
It comes with a default theme that
you can toss in the garbage and
use your own if you want.
What I like it for is stuff like
now I don't need to write these,
either pseudo selectors or
media queries in the case of
responsive design and dark mode.
I can just basically use focus column,
they'll give me a focus state.
I can use disabled column,
will give me a disabled state.
There's also some other helpers like, you
have the situation where if someone hovers
over the entire card,
everything should change underneath it.
And so there's a group selector appear.
So if they're hovering over the pier,
or they're hovering over the parent or
something like that,
you can cascade those things down.
Could you write those on regular CSS?
Absolutely, do I want to?
I don't, right?
And then getting the ability if that tree
shakes all the unused CSS is just useful.
For us, we use it less as like, we use all
the Tailwind thing and all that stuff.
We use it more as like a utility knife for
things might otherwise be
a little more tedious.
So here we've got our variance,
great, awesome, right?
Well, this is the base styles
that they all got, right?
And then we can say, okay, we've got
the primary, well, that's a color
that we pulled in in the last section
when we play so Tailwind theme.
So instead of purple, it's primary.
And now,
if I need to change primary to red,
which we shouldn't do, or
blue or green or what have you,
I can switch literally the actual
theme file and it'll all just work.
And like I said,
I could take that the step further,
where we just call it interactive.
And I can say that it's like should
be the primary button color and
change where those
variables point as well.
That's kind of like up the levels of the
Galaxy Brain, what you might choose to do.
And I'll show you our code for
that in a second as well.
Secondary button, okay, that one's
white with the different borders and
the different active colors, right?
Destructive and then the default
variant is before I had primary,
I can choose to make it secondary,
whatever.
It doesn't really matter and
we can put a default size and
all of those things in there as well.
And then basically, now we can
derive the type from our styling.
So we add another variant, automatically,
that gets added to that
ButtonProps as well.
So let's pull this in and
take it for a spin.
So there's two choices,
you can include this in the file
itself of our component or
you can choose to put it in its own file.
I think before I did it,
that one is its own file, but
if you do wanna share it
across code bases, right?
Having it as just as
a regular JavaScript or
TypeScript file that you can just
import anywhere is super useful.
So let's do that pattern.
And so you can call it variant.
If it's in the button directory,
you can call it button-variant.
It really depends on how much you
wanna be able to command P, okay, or
whatever editor you use to get into it.
We'll call it button-variant.ts,
and we will paste this in.
And then we'll also,
Call it ButtonVariants.
And so if we look at this type now,
you can see that we only have the variant,
we don't have the sizes in here,
we can do that, too.
But you can see that it is
already very similar to what we
kinda wrote by ourselves.
But you can imagine, if you looked at
all the button combinations I have,
I'd be writing more and more types.
They might get out of sync, and
then I'd have to match them
up with the default params.
And all that stuff that
I was doing earlier,
it's nice to just get that all for free.
And again, this is basically
just a JavaScript function.
If your needs are slightly different and
there's nothing,
this doesn't have to be Tailwind,
these are just class names.
Yes, those are then powered by a Tailwind.
But if you have an existing style system,
right, and you have a bunch of class names
that you wanna use the same approach,
it works there, too.
It doesn't really matter in any way,
shape, or form.
So we've got that in place, let's go
ahead and pull it into our button now.
So here, we can just say, import,
do I have an export on
export const variants.
Sure, import now, variants and
then type ButtonVariants.
Nope, not from there,
we wanna do it from the ./button-variants.
And now, we'll move size in a second, but
now what this can become is we can say,
& ButtonVariants.
So it's basically,
we'll get rid of the size momentarily.
Our type is eventually just going to be,
hey, all the default props that
a regular HTML button takes plus
whatever my design system supports.
And then you never update this again,
right?
You kinda get all the types, and
even storybook will catch
all of these things as well.
And so then now in here,
we'll kinda lose the sizes for a second.
It'll be okay,
we can get rid of all of this.
And we can just say that this is variants.
And then unfortunately, because we've
followed the predominant nomenclature,
the button-variant, eventually,
we'll add size in here as well.
And it's gonna look like a primary,
it'll get you the base classes.
It will get you then all the other
classes specific to the primary button.
And if you pass in some
garbage that doesn't work,
the type checking in there will know,
right?
And you'll kinda get that helpful red
squiggly line that is frustrating when you
don't like it.
And super helpful when you just made
a typo when you're live coding in front of
all your friends, right?
And so we can kind of flip back over to
our storybook, that's Microsoft Storybook.
Let's close, probably comes hard.
It looks like we need to do
a little bit of tweaking there, but
we get the kind of like, it's because
I think sizes is where the padding is.
So I need to bring that back in,
but I kind of get the initial
colors in place as well and
kind of support for all of that.
So let's say we wanted to add in
the sizes, we can do that as well.
I don't have them memorized, so
we'll kinda take some lucky guesses from
the number of times I've done this
over and over and over again.
We can go in here and we can say, okay, we
don't even need to have necessarily base
styles for the sizes cuz we
can have this default size.
So we'll go add another one here,
we'll call it size.
Here's the nice part about some
of this autocomplete stuff,
is that when you've worked on the same
repo, preparing for things over and
over and over again, sometimes it's
caught on to what you're gonna type.
We'll see if this is totally right, but
that looks like literally what
I typed a thousand times.
This is for Tailwind,
this is our x padding,
our y padding, and these are based on RAM.
So a p of 4 is 1 RAM, 2.5 I wanna
say is 10 pixels, 1.5 is 6 pixels.
I hate that I know this.
But in the actual Figma for the design
system, you can actually see this as well.
And the fonts that we saw in that Figma,
they're all kind of mapped to
these correct sizes as well.
And then we can say that the default
size is medium, just like we had before.
And what's super cool about this is if we
look at, so we got rid of all our style
sheet and everything along those lines,
so we're down one file completely.
If I look at the ButtonVariants,
look, it now also just automatically
updated to say, hey, this thing also
supports an optional style prop.
All right, there's either small,
medium, or large.
And because it's an optional one,
cuz we have a default value, null and
undefined also work as well, right, cuz
it will fall through to the falsie value.
And now adding sizes,
ready for it, sizes or size.
How many times have you guys made
the same mistake by pluralizing it?
And our button is effectively back with
the entire font that we had before,
and the sizing that matches to what
I had in the Figma file as well.
And what's kinda cool about this is that
because everything in that file is based
on the work that the product designer
hash on my team worked on as well.
Is that their Figma variables are mapped
to the same theme values that we have.
So all we do is export a new version of
those pasted in to the same theme file,
and any changes they make,
we get completely for free, right?
And that kind of interrupt there because
we aligned on a system that works and
we have the tooling in place.
And what we'll see in a second, we'll
set up some visual regression testing,
not in a second, a few minutes.
We'll set up some visual regression
testing so we can actually then see like,
did this change in the way we
thought it changed, right?
And you can start with just the button,
but then you can have one of your alerts,
things that have buttons in them.
Do they all change?
You can kinda get this high level thing.
And the visual regression testings
are great for two reasons, right?
One, if you didn't mean
to change something,
that's the value prop that says on
the thing, it should catch that.
But two, it's a great way of you may
be intentionally changing the button,
but maybe you forgot all the places
the button might be, right?
It's one thing to go look
at the button story, but
as you kinda build up the larger
pieces in your design system,
it's great to be like,
hey, this changed also.
And you can just kinda go ahead and
validate it, right?
Especially for our website,
we run it on every single PR, right?
We'll just generate all the visual diffs,
right?
A lot of times yeah,
they're changing on purpose because
what do you think we were doing?
But we can actually see the major one,
only things we changed actually changed.
And two, that maybe we didn't
need to change all the buttons,
we didn't really know all
the places the buttons were.
Like, this one button, it being bigger
like we intended in a table header or
something like that is
actually not what we wanted.
And it calls it out before our
customers do, cuz like I said,
you always have tests.
It's just a big question of,
are you doing it manually?
Are they automated?
Are your customers filing a bug report?
So cool, we've got that class variants,
and that will work across everything.
I have a few more examples in the code
base if you just wanna see it in action.
So here, we've got one for a badge, right,
where we can have what the default
badge looks like, primary.
And all of a sudden, first of all,
with a little bit of multicursor,
how hard it's to edit this file?
Not that hard.
If I needed to change hypothetically,
if I was going to, what is it like?
If there's gonna be something
in a later chapter,
make sure you mentioned it earlier.
Let's say hypothetically one of these
badges isn't accessible in dark mode,
hypothetically, right?
And I needed to change the contrast
of all these dark mode ones, right?
This becomes incredibly easy to manage.
If I had gone to the full galaxy brand
with this, which we could choose to do,
we'll take a look at it
in action in a second.
Then you could literally
kind of just go and
find that one class that
points to something as well.
But even that, doing a large scale
change of all of the different
contrasts would be roughly
the same amount of work.
I'll show you a little bit about
what it's talking about before,
which is all where you can take this.
So we have a, I'll go back a file,
we've got this colors.ts,
which looks shockingly like
the colors.ts that I showed you earlier,
right, that we had.
And yes, secretly, there are blues, and
there are cyans, and there are greens, and
there are all sorts of colors cuz I
have statuses of a lot of things, and
they all have to be different colors.
So I have more colors than I would like,
but we have all these colors.
But you can't use purple in our code base,
right?
This is just like the kinda list
that then gets abstracted away.
We have color primary, a CSS variable,
so not Tailwind-specific.
We then map it to also
a Tailwind class as well.
But you could theoretically
use --color-primary, and
you will get the primary
color are secondary.
And you can see this is a little helper
function I wrote that will go get slate
950, but it's the same idea.
It's just pulling off
that JavaScript object.
I didn't like writing square brackets.
And this also has a TypeScript
interface on it so that,
if you've watched me type,
I make typos, [LAUGH] right?
And nothing worse than like,
it's just undefined,
you don't know why it's working.
It's like some of those things
with key values, if you miss it,
it doesn't blow up, it just doesn't work.
So this will actually give
me a red squiggly line, but
it's just getting the key and
value of those colors.
But then throughout, we've got
you know this primary color text,
we've got what it means to be a surface,
which is kinda any card table.
And then what we do is I have
other values that we just switch
the values of those same CSS variables.
So we'll use the default
Tailwind stuff with dark:/.
But you can theoretically just reference
these variables and then swap them out.
And so I can add six different modes, and
it's really just like I swap in
a different key value store.
And what's cool about this approach is if
it should be the same color across both,
we start with the base CSS variables, and
I only override the ones that
change on the theme, right?
But then at end of the day,
these just map to Tailwind classes, right,
or I could just use the var syntax and
CSS variables.
The reason that we chose to map into
Tailwind classes is that in Teleasense,
where I do BG and
I see all of them and the colors.
It's an ergonomics thing,
not a thing that you need to do.
And if you don't use Tailwind,
you can just literally use the same
approach as the CSS variables.
There's nothing special or
Tailwind-specific.
I just like auto complete a lot and
I'm willing to do ridiculous things
to have that ergonomics, right?
And cuz then all we do
at the end of the day is
I add that root selector to the CSS
file with all my variables, right?
You can imagine what the CSS
looks like in this case.
And then if it's got that, we had to put
the body class on dark at this point.
And then we have these additional classes,
surface primary, surface secondary, so
nobody references a color ever, right?
And if I need to change when these
are someone comes into this file and
tweaks them, right?
And yes, it took us a while to then
replace all the colors and use these and
figure out what they should be.
But now adding another theme or
tweaking anything, I just tweak one file.
And then what we'll see when we get
to the testament storybook, and
then I have an automated set of things,
then verify that I did not
mess things up along the way.